Science might the thing that has improved our lives the most.
Since the scientific revolution in the 17 century our live expectancy has doubled, our wealth/purchasing power has 

given us a rich understanding of where we come from

It is the basis for all electronic and most mechanical devices
modern agriculture, 
transportation allows us to have contact with places hundreds of kilometers away



But what is science?
We humans have always been fascinated by how the world works and what drives it.
We've come up with a boundless number of explanations for natural phenomena involving e.g. gods, spirits, other worlds and fantastical beings. They can't all be true.

Science is the practice of finding out which of these explanations/hypotheses is true.
We can never be absolutely certain that something is true, but we can accumulate enough evidence to reach a very high degree of confidence.

This book aims to analyse the varirying degrees of confidence that different scientific/mathematical models can give us.
Hopefully it will help you identify what models will give you the most solid and scientifically rigorous evidence, depending on the domain you are working in


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------








there are origin stories. 
Many stories of gods and spirits controlling

In Science we try to 
we will never know if for certain, so it is all about getting as strong as possible evidence

Science is the practice of understanding how our world really works.




It is important that we get it right. Misunderstandings human biology and behaviour have been used to legitimize discrimination and even war and genocide. Misunderstandings about the spread of diseases has led to trillions of deaths 

On the other hand the exact knowledge we have gained through science has allowed us to have a 
which is the basis for all modern electronics 
our scientific knowledge is being used every day to detect and cure diseases, design highly efficient and stable machines, develop electronic and digital devices, 
monitor and improve air, soil, water and food quality. Power all our modern electrical equippment



the problem is that we are extremely easily mislead
