There are three types of scientific knowledge: macroscopic patterns, microscopic models and stories

macroscopic patterns
macroscopic patterns are some (usually approximate) relationships between macroscopic variables
e.g. "eating X increases the risk of cancer"

With this pattern glosses over all the microscopic details - we know that eating X will have various effects on different molecular pathways in our body and that these effects are what actually causes the cancer. 

Such an approximate/simplistic macroscopic pattern doesn't really get us closer to understanding the actual system - the molecular reactions in the human body. If done corretly, they can however still be very useful for decision making. E.g. deciding wether to allow a medicine or deciding which color wall is the most soothing in mental institutions.

Another example for macroscopic patterns is the mayan calendar. By tracking the regular intervals between solar and lunar eclipses, the mayans were able to predict them exceedingly accurately. They however probably knew very little about planetary dynamics and the structure of our solar system.


microscopic models
a micropscopic model is a description of how we think a real-world system works. This includes: its components, their behaviours/interactions and the processes/structures necessary for creating various observed phenomena.

For example:
molecular biology - model of the molecules in our bodies and how they interact
mechanics - model of how solid objects move and interact

The macroscopic patterns discussed above are only useful for answering a very specific questions: "does this one substance cause cancer?" or "when will there be a solar eclipse?". 
Microsopic models on the other hand can be used to model any system. E.g. Microbiology allows us to identify any number of cancerogenic substances or using the mechanics, we can simulate any solar system and use this to predict not only solar eclipses, but any cosmological event.

In other words: microscopic models allow us to put the model components in any configuration and simulate what happens. The power of microscopic models to accurately simulate any configuration/system is really what has enabled most of our modern technology. It has allowed engineers to design and accurately simulate ... 
any machine or apparatus (mechanics, fluid mechanics,electromagnetism, thermodynamics), 
any construction/infrastructure (statics, dynamics, fluid mechanics), 
any molecules and materials (quantum chemistry, solid state physics), 
any chemical processes (chemistry)
etc.

Stories
A sotry is an explanation of observed phenomena in terms of a microscopic model. 
Here, the microscopic model assumed to be true. The story investigates what processes and structures the microscopic model components must have had in order to produce the observed phenomena.


The goal of science
The two most commonly named goals of science are: 'understanding how the world works' (fundamental research) and 'improving lives through innovations' (applied research)

Understanding the how the world works (fundamental research)
What does it mean to have understood how something works? It means: 'to know the underlying mechanism that drives it' or 'to know what the underlying components and their interactions are' i.e. to know the underlying microscopic model.
Macroscpic patterns don't help us much with this task of developping a good understanding/a good microscopic model.

Improving lives through innovations (applied research)
Here, macroscopic patterns are often very useful/necessary. Especially for testing whether a hypothesis that was theoretically derived from microscopic models holds true in practice.








There are very few areas that can claim that science in this area has been completed i.e. that all known phenomena have been explained and that the evidence for this explanation is so overwhelming that 

in some of the above mentioned areas (mechanics, fluid mechanics,electromagnetism, thermodynamics, statics, dynamics) science has been completed
The ultimate goal of science is to fully understand a system i.e. find a model that
explains all phenomena
in which we are 100% certain 



The goal of science
Moreover, 

comes from having a set of behaviour rules that is generally applicable i.e. that hold true in any scenario.


For comparison, the macroscopic rules are single rules that can't be combined and that are always only valid in a very specific scenario.
The microscopic models on the other had have an set of everywhere-applicable rules
the exa and 
The  model as well as any other question relating to planetary alignment/orientation

generally applicable
exhaustive


These microscopic models are incredibly powerful. Whereas macroscopic rules have helped with individual decisions. The microscopic models for solid objects ("mechanics") and electric systems ("electromagnetism") are used every day to design 



This is the real greatest of goal in science - getting a complete and accurate description of a 
if we are able to get a complete and accurate description 

Microscopic models are much more generalisable than macroscopic rules. e.g. 


Not suprisingly, scientific models are the main focus of science. A lot of the work with scientific models lies not only in finding them, but seeing how they apply in practice (reconciling them with observations) e.g. history. For historians a basic model of how humans could possibly behave is presupposed, the chalenge lies in finding a structure/story

Even for a subject like history, we could say that there is a pre-supposed model of the type of things humans are capable of and the challenge consists of finding a story that

e.g when deciding whether to allow a new medicament


implified rule that ignores the dependence on many other factors such as  

Consequences are:
imperfect


Conclusion
Because the 
